# L8 - 2019/4/19
## Evaluation Metrics
### Typical metrics
- Events frequency
- Interval durations
- Parameter sizes
### Characteristics of good metrics
- Allows unambiguous comparison
- Allows one to develop models
- Meaningful and easy to estimate
### A general classification
- Nominal(标定的，额定的) is better metrics. e.g., utilization
## Amdahl's Law
...
## Calculating CPI
请看PPT。
## Memory Performance Analysis
请看PPT。(重要)
## Little's Law
## Another Example: BW(Bandwidth) Estimation
请看PPT。(重要)
### Factors that affect BW
- Cache miss
- Data prefetch

BW = outstanding requests / average latency of a single request
= (LLC misses + prefetches) * #threads * cache line size access latency + contention latency
## Usefulness of Little's Law in Practice
请看PPT。(重要)
## On The Evaluation of Energy and Power
### Dynamic Power
### Frequency typically scales linerarly with voltage
## Server Speed vs. Server Power
- Experimental results show that power-to-speed relationship **is almost linear**
## Estimating Computer Power
- A linear model
## Architecture Simulation
## Functional Simulation
## Trace-Driven Simulation
## Execution-Driven Simulation
现在一般用这个。
- Combines functional with timing simulation
- Achieves higher accuracy than trace-driven simulation
- Ath the cost of increased development/evaluation time
- Examples: SimpleScalar, GEMS,Simics, M5, PTLSim ...
## Simulation Approach Comparison
请看PPT。
## Simulation Acceleration
请看PPT。
- Fast-Forwarding
  - Consturcts the architecture state through functional simulation
  - Switch between functional and execution-driven simulation
- Checkpointing
  - Stores the register/memory state prior to a sampling unit
  - Just need to load the data and update simulator during runtime
## Workload Design
### Benchmark Suite(套件)
- Benchmark Suite:
  - put together collections of benchmarks to measure performance of systems
### Workload Design
- Workload Characterization
请看PPT。
